# go-cheatsheet

Go cheatsheet for basic concepts of the language. All Code is located in [main.go](main.go).

## Go Proverbs

**Don't communicate by sharing memory, share memory by communicating.**

Instead of explicitly using locks to mediate access to shared data, Go encourages the use of channels to pass references to data between goroutines. This approach ensures that only one goroutine has access to the data at a given time. 

**Concurrency is not parallelism.**

Concurrency is about program design. Parallelism is about execution.

**Channels orchestrate; mutexes serialize.**

The bigger the interface, the weaker the abstraction.

**Make the zero value useful.**

**interface{} says nothing.**

Avoid empty interfaces; they are much overused.

**Gofmt's style is no one's favorite, yet gofmt is everyone's favorite.**

**A little copying is better than a little dependency.**

**Syscall must always be guarded with build tags.**

Syscall is not portable between platforms. It's better if program fails at compile tyme iwth build-tags, than if it works works incorrectly or fails at runtime.

**Cgo must always be guarded with build tags.**

**With the unsafe package there are no guarantees.**

Program which uses unsafe package will fails sooner or later.

**Clear is better than clever.**

**Reflection is never clear.**

Reflection is much overused.

**Errors are values.**

They can be stored and compared.

**Don't just check errors, handle them gracefully.**

Handle errors that were generated by the package, pass them if they were generted by other package.

**Design the architecture, name the components, document the details.**

**Documentation is for users.**

Document WHY not WHAT.

**Don't panic.**


## Useful links
- official docs: https://golang.org/doc/
- a Go tour: https://tour.golang.org/welcome/1
- effective Go: https://golang.org/doc/effective_go.html

## TODO
- goroutine
- Mutex
